# Diversity & Inclusion in the Tech Industry

---------------------------------------------------------

## Consider the history: That Time When Women Stopped Coding


**What occured during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer sciene?**

- The share of women in computer science started falling at roughly the same moment when personal computers started showing up in U.S. homes in significant numbers.

**Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?**

- This idea that computers are for boys became a narrative. It became the story we told ourselves about the computing revolution. It helped define who geeks were, and it created techie culture.Movies like Weird Science, Revenge of the Nerds and War Games all came out in the '80s. And the plot summaries are almost interchangeable: awkward geek boy genius uses tech savvy to triumph over adversity and win the girl.

----------------------------------------------------------

## Review the data: Employee breakdown of key technology companies 



**What three take-a-ways do you have looking at this data?**

- White people has the most percent of employment according to the ethnicity in the most of the companies.

- Males have the most percent of employment according to the gender in the most of the companies.

-----------------------------------------------------------------

## Ask the question: Why diversity matters to your tech company


**When are diversity efforts most successful?**

- Diversity efforts are most successful when they’re driven by a commitment from company leaders. And meaningful commitment requires leaders to understand why diversity matters.

**Why do diverse companies perform better?**

- Given that diverse teams are smarter and more creative than homogeneous ones, it is unsurprising that a wealth of research shows a strong correlation between diverse organizations and positive financial outcomes. In a 2011 study of diversity in the top firms in Standard & Poor's Composite 1500 list, researchers found “female representation in top management leads to an increase of $42 million in firm value.”

**Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa.**

- When YouTube’s almost entirely right-handed developer team built the iOS app without considering how left-handed people would use it, for example, 5% to 10% of videos were uploaded upside down as a result. This factor may be especially relevant for leaders of consumer tech companies.